Best Practices and Anti-Patterns Updates (#1471)
onflow/cadence: docs/anti-patterns.mdx

This is an opinionated list of issues that can be improved if they are found in Cadence code intended for production.

# Security and Robustness

## Avoid using `AuthAccount` as a function parameter

> ### Problem

Reviewer: Is it possible to provide pseudo code for attack vector and the solution as well. Very similar that you provided in other best practices.

Some projects want to authenticate users using account addresses or want to perform operations for users directly.
A not-uncommon reaction is to expect a user to pass their `AuthAccount` object as a function parameter
to a contract function so that address can be queried or so an object can be stored directly.
This is a problem, because the `AuthAccount` object can be used to access ANY private area of an account,
meaning that a project could do something with your `AuthAccount` that you don't intend it to do.

### Solution

Projects should find other ways to authenticate users, such as using resources and capabilities as authentication objects.
They should also expect to perform most storage and linking operations within transaction bodies
instead of in a contract utility functions.

There are some scenarios where using an `AuthAccount` object is necessary, such as a cold storage multi-sig,

> but those cases are extremely rare and `AuthAccount` usage should still be avoided unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 2: Other solutions are available by utilizing resources and capabilities instead of `AuthAccount` for authentication purposes. Most storage and linking operations can be limited to transactions instead of calling upon contract utility functions. 

There are some scenarios where using an `AuthAccount` object is necessary such as a cold storage multi-sig. Again, there are rare cases where that's applicable, and it's recommended not to use `AuthAccount` unless absolutely necessary.

> but those cases are extremely rare and `AuthAccount` usage should still be avoided unless absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 2: Other solutions are available by utilizing resources and capabilities instead of `AuthAccount` for authentication purposes. Most storage and linking operations can be limited to transactions instead of calling upon contract utility functions. 

There are some scenarios where using an `AuthAccount` object is necessary such as a cold storage multi-sig. Again, there are rare cases where that's applicable, and it's recommended not to use `AuthAccount` unless absolutely necessary.

## Auth References should be avoided

> ### Problem

Reviewer: pseudo code here as well, If possible

[`auth` references](/language/references) should be avoided unless necessary:
it allows downcasting any restricted type to its unrestricted type.
The parent type could expose functionality that was not intended to be exposed.
If the auth keyword is used on local variables they will be references.
References are ephemeral and cannot be stored.
This prevents any reference casting to be stored under account storage.
However, if the auth keyword is used to store a public capability serious harm

> could be achieved since the value could be downcasted to a type that has functionality and values altered.

Reviewer 2: By using [`auth` references](/language/references), it allows downcasting any restricted type to its unrestricted type - which is why they should be avoided unless necessary. The parent type could expose functionality that was not intended to be exposed.

If the `auth` keyword is used on local variables - they will be references, and references are ephemeral and cannot be stored. This prevents any reference casting to be stored under account storage.

Altneratively, by using the `auth` keyword to store a public capability - it can create vulnerabilities since values can be downcasted to a type that has functionality, which can alter values that were not meant to be changed.

> could be achieved since the value could be downcasted to a type that has functionality and values altered.

Reviewer 2: By using [`auth` references](/language/references), it allows downcasting any restricted type to its unrestricted type - which is why they should be avoided unless necessary. The parent type could expose functionality that was not intended to be exposed.

If the `auth` keyword is used on local variables - they will be references, and references are ephemeral and cannot be stored. This prevents any reference casting to be stored under account storage.

Altneratively, by using the `auth` keyword to store a public capability - it can create vulnerabilities since values can be downcasted to a type that has functionality, which can alter values that were not meant to be changed.

### Example

A common pattern in many NFT smart contracts is to include a public borrow function
that borrows an auth reference to an NFT ([See Top Shot for an example](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/master/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L889-L906)).
This allows anyone to access the stored metadata or extra fields that weren't part of the NFT standard.
While this is fine in most scenarios, some NFTs might have privledged functions that shouldn't

> be exposed this way, so be careful when copying NFT projects that use this pattern. 

Reviewer 2: A commonly seen pattern in NFT smart contracts is including a public borrow function that borrows an `auth` reference to an NFT (eg. [NBA Top Shot](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/master/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L889-L906)).  This allows anyone to access the stored metadata or extra fields that weren't part of the NFT standard. While generally safe in most scenarios, not all NFTs are built the same. Some NFTs may have admin functions that shouldn't be exposed by this method, so please be cautious & mindful when imitating NFT projects that use this pattern.

> be exposed this way, so be careful when copying NFT projects that use this pattern. 

Reviewer 2: A commonly seen pattern in NFT smart contracts is including a public borrow function that borrows an `auth` reference to an NFT (eg. [NBA Top Shot](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/master/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L889-L906)).  This allows anyone to access the stored metadata or extra fields that weren't part of the NFT standard. While generally safe in most scenarios, not all NFTs are built the same. Some NFTs may have admin functions that shouldn't be exposed by this method, so please be cautious & mindful when imitating NFT projects that use this pattern.

> ## Events From Resources Might Not Be Unique

Author: Good point. I'll make them lowercase where applicable

### Problem

A public function on a contract that creates a resource can be called by any account.
If that resource has functions that emit events, any account can create an instance of that resource and emit those events.
If those events are meant to indicate actions taken using a single instance of that resource
(for example an admin object, switchboard, or registry),
or instances created through a particular workflow, then this will make event log search

> and management harder because events from other instances may be mixed in with the ones that you wish to examine.

Reviewer 2: Public functions in a contract can be called by any account. That being said, if that function creates a resource, and that resource has functions that emit events, that means any account can create an instance of that resource and emit those events. If those events are meant to indicate actions taken using a single instance of that resource (eg. admin object, registry), or instances created through a particular workflow, it's possible that events from other instances may be mixed in with the ones you're querying for - making the event log search and management more cumbersome.

> and management harder because events from other instances may be mixed in with the ones that you wish to examine.

Reviewer 2: Public functions in a contract can be called by any account. That being said, if that function creates a resource, and that resource has functions that emit events, that means any account can create an instance of that resource and emit those events. If those events are meant to indicate actions taken using a single instance of that resource (eg. admin object, registry), or instances created through a particular workflow, it's possible that events from other instances may be mixed in with the ones you're querying for - making the event log search and management more cumbersome.

### Solution

To fix this, if there should be only a single instance of the resource,
it should be created and `link()`ed to a public path in an admin account's storage

> during the contracts's initializer.

Reviewer 2: Luckily, there's an easy solution for this. If there should be only be one instance from the resource, you can create & `link()`  it to a public path in an admin account's storage when initializing the contract.

> during the contracts's initializer.

Reviewer 2: Luckily, there's an easy solution for this. If there should be only be one instance from the resource, you can create & `link()`  it to a public path in an admin account's storage when initializing the contract.

during the contracts's initializer.

# Access Control

## Public Functions and Fields Should Be Avoided

### Problem

Be sure to keep track of access modifiers when structuring your code, and make public only what should be public.
Accidentally exposed fields can be a security hole.

### Solution

When writing your smart contract, look at every field and function and make sure
that they are all `access(self)`, `access(contract)`, or `access(account)`, unless otherwise needed.

## Capability-Typed Public Fields Are A Security Hole

This is a specific case of "Public Functions And Fields Should Be Avoided", above.

### Problem

The values of public fields can be copied. Capabilities are value types,
so if they are used as a public field, anyone can copy it from the field
and call the functions that it exposes.
This almost certainly is not what you want if a capability
has been stored as a field on a contract or resource in this way.

### Solution

For public access to a capability, place it in an accounts public area so this expectation is explicit.

## Array or Dictionary Fields Should Be Private

<Callout type="info">

> This anti-pattern will no longer be an issue after the April 2022 Flow Spork and network upgrade.

Reviewer 3: This breaking change will not get deployed in that spork, but an upcoming one (likely the following one). I would just point to the FLIP and not mention a date

This is an opinionated list of issues that can be improved if they are found in Cadence code intended for production.

# Security and Robustness

## Avoid using `AuthAccount` as a function parameter

### Problem

> Some may choose to authenticate or perform operations for their users by using their account addresses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some may choose to authenticate or perform operations for their users by using the users' account addresses.
```

In order to do this, a commonly seen case would be to pass the user's `AuthAccount` object
as a parameter to a contract function to use for querying the account or storing objects directly.
This is problematic, as the `AuthAccount` object allows access to ALL private areas of the account,
which provides the opportunity for bad actors to take advantage of.

Example:

```cadence
...
// Imagine this code is in a contract that uses AuthAccount to authenticate users
// To transfer NFTs

// They could deploy the contract with an Ethereum-style access control list functionality

pub fun transferNFT(id: UInt64, owner: AuthAccount) {
    assert(owner(id) == owner.address)

    transfer(id)
}

// But they could upgrade the function to have the same signature
// so it looks like it is doing the same thing, but they could also drain a little bit
// of FLOW from the user's vault, a totally separate piece of the account that 
// should not be accessible in this function
// BAD

pub fun transferNFT(id: UInt64, owner: AuthAccount) {
    assert(owner(id) == owner.address)

    transfer(id)

    // Sneakily borrow a reference to the user's Flow Token Vault
    // and withdraw a bit of FLOW

>     // BAD

Reviewer 3: Everywhere with the BAD/GOOD annotations: Name GOOD/BAD first, then describe, e.g `BAD: Sneakily ...`

Author: Good point. I'll update all of them

    let vaultRef = owner.borrow<&FlowToken.Vault>(/storage/flowTokenVault)!
    let stolenTokens <- vaultRef.withdraw(amount: 0.1)

    // deposit the stolen funds in the contract owners vault
    // BAD
    contractVault.deposit(<-stolenTokens)
}
...
```

### Solution

Projects should find other ways to authenticate users, such as using resources and capabilities as authentication objects.
They should also expect to perform most storage and linking operations within transaction bodies
instead of in a contract utility functions.

There are some scenarios where using an `AuthAccount` object is necessary, such as a cold storage multi-sig,
but those cases are extremely rare and `AuthAccount` usage should still be avoided unless absolutely necessary.

## Auth References should be avoided

### Problem

[`auth` references](/language/references) should be avoided unless necessary:

> An Auth Reference allows downcasting any restricted type to its unrestricted type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An authorized reference allows downcasting, e.g. a restricted type to its unrestricted type.
```

The parent type could expose functionality that was not intended to be exposed.
If the auth keyword is used on local variables they will be references.
References are ephemeral and cannot be stored.
This prevents any reference casting to be stored under account storage.
Additionally, if the `auth` keyword is used to store a public capability, serious harm

> could be happen since the value could be downcasted to a type

Reviewer 3: I'm not a native speaker, but "could be happen" seems wrong

that has functionality and values altered.

### Example

A commonly seen pattern in NFT smart contracts is including a public borrow function

> that borrows an auth reference to an NFT (eg. [NBA Top Shot](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/master/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L889-L906)).

Reviewer 3: Link targets the master branch, which might change. Instead, link to the current commit, i.e `
```suggestion
that borrows an auth reference to an NFT (eg. [NBA Top Shot](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/95fe72b7e94f43c9eff28412ce3642b69dcd8cd5/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L889-L906)).
```

(Tip: Pressing `y` in GitHub changes the URL from branch to commit)

This allows anyone to access the stored metadata or extra fields that weren't part
of the NFT standard. While generally safe in most scenarios, not all NFTs are built the same.
Some NFTs may have admin functions that shouldn't be exposed by this method,

> so please be cautious & mindful when imitating NFT projects that use this pattern.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
so please be cautious and mindful when imitating NFT projects that use this pattern.
```

during the contracts's initializer.

# Access Control

## Public Functions and Fields Should Be Avoided

### Problem

Be sure to keep track of access modifiers when structuring your code, and make public only what should be public.
Accidentally exposed fields can be a security hole.

### Solution

When writing your smart contract, look at every field and function and make sure
that they are all `access(self)`, `access(contract)`, or `access(account)`, unless otherwise needed.

## Capability-Typed Public Fields Are A Security Hole

This is a specific case of "Public Functions And Fields Should Be Avoided", above.

### Problem

The values of public fields can be copied. Capabilities are value types,
so if they are used as a public field, anyone can copy it from the field
and call the functions that it exposes.
This almost certainly is not what you want if a capability
has been stored as a field on a contract or resource in this way.

### Solution

For public access to a capability, place it in an accounts public area so this expectation is explicit.

## Array or Dictionary Fields Should Be Private

<Callout type="info">

> This anti-pattern is fixed with [FLIP #703](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/flips/20211129-cadence-mutability-restrictions.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This anti-pattern has been addressed with [FLIP #703](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/flips/20211129-cadence-mutability-restrictions.md)
```

transaction {
    execute {

> 		Array.shouldbeConstantArray[0] = 1000

Reviewer 3: Rest of snippet is indented with spaces:
```suggestion
        Array.shouldbeConstantArray[0] = 1000
```

        return <-create Admin()
    }
}

// This contract makes the admin creation private and in the initializer
// so that only the one who controls the account can mint tokens
// GOOD
pub contract Currency {
    pub resource Admin {
        pub fun mintTokens()

        // Only an admin can create new Admins
        pub fun createAdmin(): @Admin {
            return <-create Admin()
        }
    }

    init() {
        // Create a single admin resource
        let firstAdmin <- create Admin()

        // Store it in private account storage in `init` so only the admin can use it
        self.account.save(<-firstAdmin, to: /storage/currencyAdmin)
    }
}
```

## Do Not Modify Smart Contract State or Emit Events in public struct initializers

This is another example of the risks of having publicly accessible parts to your smart contract.

### Problem

Data structure definitions in Cadence currently must be declared as public so that they can be used by anyone.
Structs do not have the same restrictions that resources have on them,
which means that anyone can create a new instance of a struct without going through any authorization.

### Solution

> Any contract state-modifying operations related to the creation of structs

Reviewer 3: Great point, did not realize this could potentially be a problem. We could add a linting pass for that

should be contained in restricted resources instead of the initializers of structs.

### Example

This used to be a bug in the NBA Top Shot smart contract, so we'll use that as an example.
Before, when they created a new play,
[they would initialize the play record with a struct,](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/55645478594858a6830e4ab095034068ef9753e9/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L155-L158)
which increments the number that tracks the play IDs and emits an event:

```cadence
// Simplified Code
// BAD
//
pub contract TopShot {

    // The Record that is used to track every unique play ID
    pub var nextPlayID: UInt32

    pub struct Play {

        pub let playID: UInt32

        init() {

            self.playID = TopShot.nextPlayID

            // Increment the ID so that it isn't used again

>             TopShot.nextPlayID = TopShot.nextPlayID + UInt32(1)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            TopShot.nextPlayID = TopShot.nextPlayID + 1
```

            emit PlayCreated(id: self.playID, metadata: metadata)
        }
    }
}
```

This is a risk because anyone can create the `Play` struct as many times as they want,
which could increment the `nextPlayID` field to the max `UInt32` value,
effectively preventing new plays from being created. It also would emit bogus events.

This bug was fixed by
[instead updating the contract state in the admin function](https://github.com/dapperlabs/nba-smart-contracts/blob/master/contracts/TopShot.cdc#L682-L685)
that creates the plays.

```cadence
// Update contract state in admin resource functions
// GOOD
//
pub contract TopShot {

    // The Record that is used to track every unique play ID
    pub var nextPlayID: UInt32

    pub struct Play {

        pub let playID: UInt32

        init() {

            self.playID = TopShot.nextPlayID

>             // Increment the ID so that it isn't used again
>             TopShot.nextPlayID = TopShot.nextPlayID + UInt32(1)
> 
>             emit PlayCreated(id: self.playID, metadata: metadata)

Reviewer 3: This logic should be *moved* to `Admin.createPlay`, right?

```suggestion
```

        }
    }

    pub resource Admin {

        // Protected within the private admin resource
        pub fun createPlay() {
            // Create the new Play
            var newPlay = Play()

            // Increment the ID so that it isn't used again

>             TopShot.nextPlayID = TopShot.nextPlayID + UInt32(1)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            TopShot.nextPlayID = TopShot.nextPlayID + 1
```
